# Exercise 2: Getting information on K8s resources

# Exercise Objectives
- Learn how to get different kinds of information about resources within Kubernetes
  - Understand what `namespaces` are in the context of a kubernetes cluster
  - Understand what the `kubectl get` command does
  - Understand what the `kubectl describe` command does
  - Understand what the `kubectl logs` command does

# Exercise Description
There will be many times where you will need to collect information about what resources are currently running in your Kubernetes cluster. Such situations may include, but are not limited, to: 
- Needing to list all instances of a given type of resource. Foe example, getting a list of all pods, services, deployments, or something else.
- When you might need to get an individual resource's full deployment/running detiails.
- Or potentially when you need to get the logs of a container running in a pod.

But before we get in to that, you need to be introduced to a new core concept/feature of kubernetes. Kubernetes has this notion of something called a `namespace` and it's critically important that you understand what this is and what role this plays when managing a K8s cluster.

As an oversimplified explanation, you can think of `namespaces` as a way to group or partition resources (things like pods, services, storage, etc...) together. When a new K8s cluster is created it will come out of the box with three `namespaces` called "default", "kube-system" (used for Kubernetes components), and "kube-public" (used for public resources).

When you create new resources, like pods for example, if you don't specify which namespace it should be apart of, it will be added to the "defult" namespace automatically.
Also, whenever you execute a command to read, modify, or delete resources, all actions will act against the "default" namespace unless you manually specify which namespace should be interacted with.

For all of our exercises, we will only be interacting with the "default" namespace.

# Exercise Instructions

1. For the first part of this exercise, we will be getting lists of different types of resources that we can collect information on. To do that, we'll look at the help information for the `kubectl get` command:
    ```
    kubectl get -h
    ```

2. Notice how in the output of the previous step there were many different types of resource that you can get information on. So, without immediately looking at the answer, try to get a list of all the currently available namespaces in your K8s cluster:
- answer
  - command to run
  - expected output

3. Now, again without immediately looking at the answer, get a list of all the running pods in the default namespace.
- answer
  - command to run
  - expected output

4. Next now that we know how to get lists of a given type of resource, like pods, we will next learn how to get the deployment information of a single resource instance. More specifically, you will be getting the details of our single nginx pod that was listed in the previous step. Without immediately looking at the answer, try to  do this.
- hint
- answer
  - command to run
  - expected output

5. What if you have a misbehaving application that's running in a pod? You will more than likely want to get the main log file that being generated by that application. Without immediately looking at the answer, try to get the logs of your single nginx pod.
- hint
- answer
  - command to run
  - expected output


After sucessfully completing the last step, plese continue to **Exercise-3**.